feat(useHeightAnimation): add hook to make height (auto) animations easy (#1561)
dnbexperience/eufemia: packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/helpers/hooks.md

---
showTabs: true
---

import {
HeightAnimationExample,
} from 'Docs/uilib/helpers/Examples'
import SkipLinkExample from 'Docs/uilib/usage/accessibility/examples/skip-link-example.js'

## Description

These React Hooks are internally used in the components, and are with that a good choice when it comes to save bandwidth in the final production bundle.

## `useHeightAnimation`

> In many places we want to animate the content in and out. The challenge is to never define a fixed height, because of a unknown content size and a different font size the users is using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In many places we want to animate the content in and out. The challenge is to never define a fixed height, because of an unknown content size and users' different font sizes.
```

> The `useHeightAnimation` hook takes an HTML Element, and animates it from 0 to the current content. When the animation is done, it tests the element height to `auto`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `useHeightAnimation` hook takes an HTML Element, and animates it from 0 to the current content. When the animation is done, it sets the element's height to `auto`.
```
